[monitor] README + samples _ ci.yml (#15288)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-python: sdk/monitor/microsoft-opentelemetry-exporter-azuremonitor/README.md

> # Microsoft Opentelemtry Exporter for Azure Monitor client library for Python

Reviewer: Please add gitter link 

[![Gitter chat](https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/Microsoft/azure-monitor-python)](https://gitter.im/Microsoft/azure-monitor-python)

Reviewer: Actually I believe there is a gitter for Azure SDK, we can deprecate the old one and use the SDK one now
https://gitter.im/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python

> # Microsoft Opentelemtry Exporter for Azure Monitor client library for Python

Reviewer 2: `telemetry`

exporter = AzureMonitorSpanExporter(
    instrumentation_key = os.environ["AZURE_MONITOR_INSTRUMENTATION_KEY"]
)
```

## Key concepts

Some of the key concepts for the Azure monitor exporter include:

* [Opentelemetry][opentelemtry_spec]: Opentelemetry is a tool to instrument, generate, collect, and export telemetry data (metrics, logs, and traces) for analysis in order to understand your software's performance and behavior.

* [Trace][trace_concept]: Trace can be thought of as a directed acyclic graph (DAG) of Spans, where the edges between Spans are defined as parent/child relationship.

* [AzureMonitorSpanExporter][client_reference]: This is the object a user should first initialize to connect the namespace to send trace data.

* [Exporter Options][exporter_options]: Options to configure Azure exporters. Includes connection_string, instrumentation_key, proxies, timeout etc.

For more information about these resources, see [What is Azure Monitor?][product_docs].

## Examples

The following sections provide several code snippets covering some of the most common tasks, including:

* [Export hello world trace data](#export-hello-world-trace)

> * [Batch Export Spans](#batch-export-span-processor)

Reviewer: Modifying traces is a bid deal for our customers, please add the example as well
https://github.com/microsoft/opentelemetry-azure-monitor-python#modifying-traces

### Export Hello World Trace

```Python
import os
from opentelemetry import trace
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace import TracerProvider
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace.export import BatchExportSpanProcessor
from microsoft.opentelemetry.exporter.azuremonitor import AzureMonitorSpanExporter

# Callback function to add os_type: linux to span properties
def callback_function(envelope):
    envelope.data.base_data.properties["os_type"] = "linux"
    return True

exporter = AzureMonitorSpanExporter(
    connection_string = os.environ["AZURE_MONITOR_CONNECTION_STRING"]
)
exporter.add_telemetry_processor(callback_function)

trace.set_tracer_provider(TracerProvider())
tracer = trace.get_tracer(__name__)
span_processor = BatchExportSpanProcessor(exporter)
trace.get_tracer_provider().add_span_processor(span_processor)

with tracer.start_as_current_span("hello"):
    print("Hello, World!")
```

> ### Batch Export Span Processor

Reviewer: Both examples you have in here are actually using BatchExportSpanProcessor, this is example is about using instrumentors, we need extra details like original readme to make clear what the example is covering
https://github.com/microsoft/opentelemetry-azure-monitor-python#instrumentations

```Python
import os
import requests
from opentelemetry import trace
from opentelemetry.instrumentation.requests import RequestsInstrumentor
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace import TracerProvider
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace.export import BatchExportSpanProcessor

from microsoft.opentelemetry.exporter.azuremonitor import AzureMonitorSpanExporter

trace.set_tracer_provider(TracerProvider())
tracer = trace.get_tracer(__name__)
RequestsInstrumentor().instrument()
span_processor = BatchExportSpanProcessor(
    AzureMonitorSpanExporter(
        connection_string = os.environ["AZURE_MONITOR_CONNECTION_STRING"]
    )
)
trace.get_tracer_provider().add_span_processor(span_processor)
```

## Troubleshooting

### Logging

> - Enable by setting `logging_enable=True` when creating the client.

Reviewer: This could confuse users here, need to add details about logging of the actual library, sounds like a magic flag that will enable sending logging telemetry

Author: i believe this can actually be removed for now

## Next steps

### More sample code

Please find further examples in the [samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/master/sdk/monitor/microsoft-opentelemetry-exporter-azuremonitor/samples) directory demonstrating common scenarios.

> ### Additional documentation

Reviewer: What about the auto generated documentation? similar to https://azuresdkdocs.blob.core.windows.net/$web/python/azure-mgmt-monitor/1.0.1/index.html

Author: We do have the API ref docs link right on top of the page. The intention of theseadditional docs are more to give an in depth idea of the service, ot etc.

The exporter for Azure Monitor allows you to export tracing data utilizing the OpenTelemetry SDK and send telemetry data to Azure Monitor for applications written in Python.

[Source code](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/master/sdk/monitor/microsoft-opentelemetry-exporter-azuremonitor) | [Package (PyPi)][pypi] | [API reference documentation][api_docs] | [Product documentation][product_docs] | [Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/master/sdk/monitor/microsoft-opentelemetry-exporter-azuremonitor/samples) | [Changelog](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/master/sdk/monitor/microsoft-opentelemetry-exporter-azuremonitor/CHANGELOG.md)

> **NOTE**: This is the preview for the next major version of [`opentelemetry-azure-monitor-python`](https://github.com/microsoft/opentelemetry-azure-monitor-python).

## Getting started

### Install the package

Install the Microsoft Opentelemetry exporter for Azure Monitor with [pip][pip]:

```Bash
pip install microsoft-opentelemetry-exporter-azuremonitor --pre
```

### Prerequisites: 
To use this package, you must have:
* Azure subscription - [Create a free account][azure_sub]

> * Azure Monitor - [How to use application insights][application_insights_namespace]

Reviewer 3: Is this really a prerequisite? Also **Azure Monitor** - How to use **Application Insights** is kind of confusing. Shouldn't we be only introducing Azure Monitor?

* Opentelemetry SDK - [Opentelemtry SDK for Python][ot_sdk_python]
* Python 3.5 or later - [Install Python][python]

### Authenticate the client

Interaction with Azure monitor exporter starts with an instance of the `AzureMonitorSpanExporter` class. You will need a **connection_string** to instantiate the object.
Please find the samples linked below for demonstration as to how to authenticate using a connection string.

#### [Create Exporter from connection string][sample_authenticate_client_connstr]

```Python
from microsoft.opentelemetry.exporter.azuremonitor import AzureMonitorSpanExporter
exporter = AzureMonitorSpanExporter(
    connection_string = os.environ["APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING "]
)
```

## Key concepts

Some of the key concepts for the Azure monitor exporter include:

* [Opentelemetry][opentelemtry_spec]: Opentelemetry is a set of libraries used to collect and export telemetry data (metrics, logs, and traces) for analysis in order to understand your software's performance and behavior.

> * [Instrumentation][instrumentation_library]: The ability to call the opentelemetry API directly by any application is facilitated by instrumentaton. A library that enables OpenTelemetry observability for another library is called an Instrumentation Library.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Instrumentation][instrumentation_library]: The ability to track calls made by a Python library is facilitated by instrumentations. A library that enables OpenTelemetry observability for one of these Python libraries is called an Instrumentation Library.
```

Reviewer 3: I would also link to the supported instrumentation libraries that Python supports. https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python-contrib/tree/master/instrumentation

> # Microsoft Opentelemetry Exporter for Azure Monitor client library for Python

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Microsoft Opentelemetry Exporter for Azure Monitor
```

[![Gitter chat](https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/Microsoft/azure-monitor-python)](https://gitter.im/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python)

> The Exporter for Azure Monitor allows you to export tracing data utilizing the OpenTelemetry Python Client and send telemetry data to Azure Monitor written in Python.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The exporter for Azure Monitor allows you to export tracing data utilizing the OpenTelemetry SDK and send telemetry data to Azure Monitor for applications written in Python.
```

[Source code](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/master/sdk/monitor/microsoft-opentelemetry-exporter-azuremonitor) | [Package (PyPi)][pypi] | [API reference documentation][api_docs] | [Product documentation][product_docs] | [Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/master/sdk/monitor/microsoft-opentelemetry-exporter-azuremonitor/samples) | [Changelog](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/master/sdk/monitor/microsoft-opentelemetry-exporter-azuremonitor/CHANGELOG.md)

> > **NOTE**: This is the preview for the next major version of the [`opentelemetry-azure-monitor-python`](https://github.com/microsoft/opentelemetry-azure-monitor-python).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: This is the preview for the next major version of [`opentelemetry-azure-monitor-python`](https://github.com/microsoft/opentelemetry-azure-monitor-python).
```

## Getting started

### Install the package

> Install the Microsoft Opentelemetry Exporter Azure Monitor client library for Python with [pip][pip]:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Install the Microsoft Opentelemetry exporter for Azure Monitor with [pip][pip]:
```

```Bash
pip install microsoft-opentelemetry-exporter-azuremonitor --pre
```

### Prerequisites: 
To use this package, you must have:
* Azure subscription - [Create a free account][azure_sub]
* Azure Monitor - [How to use application insights][application_insights_namespace]
* Opentelemetry SDK - [Opentelemtry SDK for Python][ot_sdk_python]
* Python 3.5 or later - [Install Python][python]

### Authenticate the client

> Interaction with Azure monitor exporter starts with an instance of the `AzureMonitorSpanExporter` class. You will need an **instrumentation_key** or a **connection_string** to instantiate the object.

Reviewer 3: If we are moving towards the use of connection string, would it be better to omit anything related to instrumentation key and only recommend connection string?

Author: I agree with that tbh! There should be one - and preferably only one obvious way to do it :) 
Let's stop documenting it in the readme for this beta but still support it, that way we dont break much stuff on the day of the release but will not encourage users to use it.

The priority of which value takes on the instrumentation key is:
* Key from explicitly passed in connection string
* Key from explicitly passed in instrumentation key
* Key from connection string in environment variable
* Key from instrumentation key in environment variable
Please find the samples linked below for demonstration as to how to authenticate via either approach.

#### [Create Exporter from connection string][sample_authenticate_client_connstr]

```Python
from microsoft.opentelemetry.exporter.azuremonitor import AzureMonitorSpanExporter
exporter = AzureMonitorSpanExporter(

>     connection_string = os.environ["AZURE_MONITOR_CONNECTION_STRING"]

Reviewer 3: I believe the original sdks used `APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING` and `APPINSIGHTS_INSTRUMENTATIONKEY`?

Author: yup, we changed these in the samples, so just being consistent

Reviewer 3: Wouldn't this be a breaking change if user's are instrumented with both old SDKs and OT sdk? That means they would have to have 2 environment variables to represent the same thing.

Author: fair enough - changed it

)
```

#### Create Exporter using the instrumentation key:

```Python
from microsoft.opentelemetry.exporter.azuremonitor import AzureMonitorSpanExporter
exporter = AzureMonitorSpanExporter(
    instrumentation_key = os.environ["AZURE_MONITOR_INSTRUMENTATION_KEY"]
)
```

## Key concepts

Some of the key concepts for the Azure monitor exporter include:

> * [Opentelemetry][opentelemtry_spec]: Opentelemetry is a tool to instrument, generate, collect, and export telemetry data (metrics, logs, and traces) for analysis in order to understand your software's performance and behavior.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Opentelemetry][opentelemtry_spec]: Opentelemetry is a set of libraries used to collect and export telemetry data (metrics, logs, and traces) for analysis in order to understand your software's performance and behavior.
```

> * [Trace][trace_concept]: Trace can be thought of as a directed acyclic graph (DAG) of Spans, where the edges between Spans are defined as parent/child relationship.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Trace][trace_concept]: Trace refers to distributed tracing. It can be thought of as a directed acyclic graph (DAG) of Spans, where the edges between Spans are defined as parent/child relationship.
```

Reviewer 3: I would add a link to somewhere that explains distributed tracing.

Reviewer 3: As well, "Span" should be a key concept.

> * [AzureMonitorSpanExporter][client_reference]: This is the object a user should first initialize to connect the namespace to send trace data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [AzureMonitorSpanExporter][client_reference]: This is the class that is initialized to send tracing related telemetry to Azure Monitor.
```

> * [Exporter Options][exporter_options]: Options to configure Azure exporters. Includes connection_string, instrumentation_key, proxies, timeout etc.

Reviewer 3: Maybe an example showing what exporter options are available?

Author: this links to the docstring of the Exporter options - I'll add samples in a different PR

> 

Reviewer 3: I would also add "instrumentation" as a key term.

For more information about these resources, see [What is Azure Monitor?][product_docs].

## Examples

The following sections provide several code snippets covering some of the most common tasks, including:

> * [Export hello world trace data](#export-hello-world-trace)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Exporting a custom span](#export-hello-world-trace)
```

> * [Modifying Traces](#modifying-traces)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Modifying spans](#modifying-traces)
```

> * [Instrumentation with requests library](#instrumentation-with-requests-library)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Using an instrumentation to track a library](#instrumentation-with-requests-library)
```

### Export Hello World Trace

```Python
import os
from opentelemetry import trace
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace import TracerProvider
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace.export import BatchExportSpanProcessor
from microsoft.opentelemetry.exporter.azuremonitor import AzureMonitorSpanExporter

# Callback function to add os_type: linux to span properties

> def callback_function(envelope):

Reviewer 3: The telemetry processor should not be in the simple example.

Author: removed

    envelope.data.base_data.properties["os_type"] = "linux"
    return True

exporter = AzureMonitorSpanExporter(
    connection_string = os.environ["AZURE_MONITOR_CONNECTION_STRING"]
)
exporter.add_telemetry_processor(callback_function)

> trace.set_tracer_provider(TracerProvider())

Reviewer 3: What about tracer provider, span processor and sampler? These are terms user probably should be familiar with. If not in our docs here, we should at least link to the Opentelemetry docs explaining what they are.

Author: will add them in key concepts

tracer = trace.get_tracer(__name__)
span_processor = BatchExportSpanProcessor(exporter)
trace.get_tracer_provider().add_span_processor(span_processor)

with tracer.start_as_current_span("hello"):
    print("Hello, World!")
```

### Modifying Traces

* You can pass a callback function to the exporter to process telemetry before it is exported.
* Your callback function can return False if you do not want this envelope exported.
* Your callback function must accept an envelope data type as its parameter.
* You can see the schema for Azure Monitor data types in the envelopes here.

> * The AzureMonitorSpanExporter handles Data data types.

Reviewer 3: I would link to the code in which defines "Data"

```Python
from microsoft.opentelemetry.exporter.azuremonitor import AzureMonitorSpanExporter
from opentelemetry import trace
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace import TracerProvider
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace.export import BatchExportSpanProcessor

# Callback function to add os_type: linux to span properties
def callback_function(envelope):
    envelope.data.baseData.properties['os_type'] = 'linux'
    return True

exporter = AzureMonitorSpanExporter(
    connection_string='InstrumentationKey=<your-ikey-here>'
)
# This line will modify telemetry
exporter.add_telemetry_processor(callback_function)

trace.set_tracer_provider(TracerProvider())
tracer = trace.get_tracer(__name__)
span_processor = BatchExportSpanProcessor(exporter)
trace.get_tracer_provider().add_span_processor(span_processor)

with tracer.start_as_current_span('hello'):
    print('Hello World!')
```

### Instrumentation with requests library

OpenTelemetry also supports several instrumentations which allows to instrument with third party libraries.

> This example shows how to instrument with the requests_ library.

Reviewer 3: Is `requests_` linking to anything?

Author: added

> * Create an Azure Monitor resource and get the instrumentation key, more information can be found here.

Reviewer 3: Don't think the exporter README should contain anything about setting up the App Insights resource.

> * Install the requests integration package using pip install opentelemetry-ext-http-requests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Install the requests integration package using pip install opentelemetry-instrumentation-requests.
```

Reviewer 3: I would also link to the actual package.

> * Specify your connection string in an environment variable `AZURE_MONITOR_CONNECTION_STRING`.

Reviewer 3: Isn't this step already explained above?

Author: agreed - this has become redundant

```Python
import os
import requests
from opentelemetry import trace
from opentelemetry.instrumentation.requests import RequestsInstrumentor
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace import TracerProvider
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace.export import BatchExportSpanProcessor

from microsoft.opentelemetry.exporter.azuremonitor import AzureMonitorSpanExporter

trace.set_tracer_provider(TracerProvider())
tracer = trace.get_tracer(__name__)

> RequestsInstrumentor().instrument()

Reviewer 3: I would comment a comment for this line saying something like: `This line causes your calls made with the `requests` library to be tracked`.

span_processor = BatchExportSpanProcessor(
    AzureMonitorSpanExporter(
        connection_string = os.environ["AZURE_MONITOR_CONNECTION_STRING"]
    )
)
trace.get_tracer_provider().add_span_processor(span_processor)

RequestsInstrumentor().instrument()

# This request will be traced
response = requests.get(url="https://azure.microsoft.com/")
```

## Troubleshooting

> This client raises exceptions defined in [Azure Core](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/master/sdk/core/azure-core/README.md#azure-core-library-exceptions).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The exporter raises exceptions defined in [Azure Core](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/master/sdk/core/azure-core/README.md#azure-core-library-exceptions).
```

the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

<!-- LINKS -->
[azure_cli]: https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure
[api_docs]: https://aka.ms/monitorexporterapidocs
[product_docs]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/overview
[azure_portal]: https://portal.azure.com
[azure_sub]: https://azure.microsoft.com/free/
[cloud_shell]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-shell/overview
[cloud_shell_bash]: https://shell.azure.com/bash
[pip]: https://pypi.org/project/pip/

> [pypi]: aka.ms/monitorexporterpypi

Author: ```suggestion
[pypi]: https://pypi.org/project/opentelemetry-azure-monitor/
```
